Blog/fastline & BItrise (#94)
xmartlabs/blog: _posts/2020-03-30-CI-WITH_FASTLANE_AND_BITRISE.md

---
layout: post
title: "Agile iOS development workflow using Fastlane & Bitrise"
date: 2020-04-01 10:00:00
author: Martin Barreto
categories: CI, fastlane, bitrise
author_id: mtnBarreto
featured_position: 1
featured_image: /images/ios-fastlane-ci/featured.png
---

The only way to move faster in a dynamic environment is to automate everything that's repetitive and time-consuming.
When it comes to the common development workflow, places to automate abound. In this post I'll talk about how our iOS team uses [Fastlane](https://https://fastlane.tools/) and [Bitrise](https://www.bitrise.io/) to automate the app release process to [TestFlight](https://developer.apple.com/testflight/), but also about how we make sure that we're not introducing errors in already implemented functionalities.

### What's Fastlane

> Basically Fastlane is an open-source platform that both simplifies and speeds up development process by allowing teams to automate development workflows. It also has continuous integration support with multiple CI platforms like Bitrise, circleCI, Jenkins, travisCI, among others.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Basically Fastlane is an open-source platform that both simplifies and speeds up the development process by allowing teams to automate development workflows. It also has continuous integration support with multiple CI platforms like Bitrise, CircleCI, Jenkins, TravisCI, among others.
```

### What's Bitrise

Bitrise is a Continuous Integration and Delivery (CI/CD) Platform as a Service (PaaS) with a main focus on mobile app development.

> This blog is not intended to explain these concepts but how we configure and set up these tools to optimize our development workflow. See their respective websites and docs to know more about each tool.

### So, why automate integrations and releases?

There are several reasons but these are the most important:

> - Definition of the development workflow. Consistency in frequency or triggers that execute the automated tasks like testing and release.

Reviewer: Maybe you could explain the second sentence a bit more. Consistency in frequency?

Author: Definition of the development workflow. We know exactly when an automatic build happens, when unit test runs and also also when a release process start.???

 @mats-claassen

- Save time and money. Nobody in an engineering team likes to do repetitive tasks, freeing us of these allows us to invest our precious time on what really matters.

## How to set up fastlane in an iOS project

> > we'll assume you already have installed Fastlane in your computer. If not you can follow [Fastlane documentation](https://docs.fastlane.tools/getting-started/ios/setup/) and then come back to this section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> We'll assume you have already installed Fastlane on your computer. If not, you can follow the [Fastlane documentation](https://docs.fastlane.tools/getting-started/ios/setup/) and then come back to this section.
```

From your terminal, navigate to your iOS project's directory and run:

```bash
fastlane init
```

> This will automatically generates several Fastlane config files, with the most important being `Fastfile`, which is the file that stores the automation configuration where you'll see different lanes. Each lane is there to automate a different task, such as screenshots, code signing, or pushing new releases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will automatically generate several Fastlane config files, with the most important being `Fastfile`, which is the file that stores the automation configuration where you'll see different lanes. Each lane is there to automate a different task, such as screenshots, code signing, or pushing new releases.
```

We can add as many lanes as we need. Each lane automates a development process and can be run through the command `fastlane <lane_name>`.
So, let's create a test lane in order to run unit tests by running `fastlane test`.

```ruby
desc "Runs all the tests"

lane :test do
  xctest(
    clean: false,
    code_coverage: true,
    scheme: "xmartlabs",
    workspace: "xmartlabs.xcworkspace",

>     destination: "name=iPhone 11,OS=13.3"

Reviewer: This is a minor detail but the latest version is 13.4
```suggestion
    destination: "name=iPhone 11,OS=13.4"
```

  )
end
```

> xctest is a built-in fastlane action available to everyone that uses Xcode command line tools and runs Xcode tests.

So now we are able to run our iOS project tests by running `fastlane tests`.

> Now our next goal is to automatically trigger this lane whenever any developer opens a pull request in our git remote repository. To accomplish so we are going to use Bitrise which allows us to do continuous integration and continuous delivery as a service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now our next goal is to automatically trigger this lane whenever any developer opens a pull request in our git remote repository. To accomplish this, we are going to use Bitrise which allows us to do continuous integration and continuous delivery as a service.
```

At the end the :`which allows us to do continuous integration and continuous delivery as a service.` You have said that before. Maybe it is redundant

> In short, Bitrise allows the developer to define workflows, a sequence of tasks that run one at a time until one fails or all completes. Bitrise also provides triggers that execute a workflow whenever a git tag, pull request or push is performed on a remote git repository.

Reviewer: These tasks are called `steps` in Bitrise. Maybe mention that

```suggestion
In short, Bitrise allows the developer to define workflows, a sequence of tasks (or steps) that run one at a time until one fails or all complete. Bitrise also provides triggers that execute a workflow whenever a git tag, pull request or push is performed on a remote git repository.
```

<img width="100%" src="/images/ios-fastlane-ci/triggers.png" />

> We still need to define our `pr` workflow that should run `fastlane tests`. As we said a workflow is a sequence of tasks that will run one after another. Bitrise provides the computer hardware with basic configuration and setup like Xcode and CocoaPods and some other tools. We only need to define the workflow, which means we need to define the sequence of tasks that belong to the workflow.

Reviewer: I think this is very repetitive

```suggestion
We still need to define our `pr` workflow that should run `fastlane tests`. Bitrise provides the computer hardware with basic configuration and setup like Xcode and CocoaPods and some other tools. We only need to define the sequence of tasks that belong to the workflow.
```

> The first step is to clone the repository for which Bitrise already provides a task to do so named `Git Clone Repository`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first step is to clone the repository for which Bitrise already provides a task named `Git Clone Repository`.
```

We also have to install any needed tool not provided by default in [Bitrise environment stack](https://github.com/bitrise-io/bitrise.io/blob/master/system_reports/osx-xcode-11.3.x.log). It could be a missing functionality or we might need another version of a particular tool.
Even though Fastlane is part of the Bitrise stack, I'm using a newer version of it so I'm gonna install it. We will also update the cocoapods repo. We can do so by adding a new step to the workflow that runs a script named 'Do anything with Script step'.

Below you can see the content of the script.

```bash
#!/usr/bin/env bash
# fail if any commands fails
set -e
# debug log
set -x

# write your script here
gem update cocoapods
pod repo update

set -ex
gem install fastlane --version 2.142.0 --no-document
```

After this, we need to run our Fastlane lane, Bitrise also provides a Workflow task to accomplish this named `fastlane` where we only need to specify the name of our already defined lane (which is `test`).

Here is the entire workflow already created in Bitrise.

<img width="100%" src="/images/ios-fastlane-ci/workflow.png" />

> At this point, the `test` lane will be executed whenever a pull request is created/updated. Cool right? Bitrise integrates with Github/Bitbucket and many other git solutions to indicate if everything goes well or not.

Reviewer: Did you mention how to create the trigger for this to work?

Author: pretty much the same approach, don't want to be repetitive.

> Another automated task we strongly use is the release of new versions. Basically we send a new build to Testflight whenever a new tag (named <version_*>) is created in Github. As we said Bitrise provides us with push, pull request and tag triggers, this time we are going to use a tag trigger.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another automated task we strongly use is the release of new versions. Basically we send a new build to TestFlight whenever a new tag (named <version_*>) is created in GitHub. As we said Bitrise provides us with push, pull request and tag triggers, this time we are going to use a tag trigger.
```

  build_output_name = "xmartlabs_" + build_type

  # `automatic_code_signing` configures Xcode's Codesigning options.
  automatic_code_signing(
    use_automatic_signing: false,
    path: "xmartlabs.xcodeproj",
    team_id: build_sign_team_id,
    profile_name: build_sign_profile_name,
    code_sign_identity: build_sign_certificate_name,
    targets: ["xmartlabs"]
  )

  #`cocoapods` runs pod install for the project.
  cocoapods(
    try_repo_update_on_error: true
  )

  #`build_ios_app` Easily build and sign your iOS app.
  build_ios_app(
    workspace: "xmartlabs.xcworkspace",
    configuration: "Release",
    scheme: "xmartlabs",
    clean: true,
    output_name: build_output_name,
    output_directory: build_output_path,
    derived_data_path: build_derived_data_path,
    build_path: build_output_path,
    include_bitcode: true,
    include_symbols: true,
    export_options: {
      compileBitcode: false,
      uploadBitcode: false,
      uploadSymbols: true,
      signingStyle: "manual",
      method: "app-store",
      teamID: build_sign_team_id,
      provisioningProfiles: {
        "com.xmartlabsinc.xmartlabs": "Xmartlabs Distribution",

>         "com.xmartlabsinc.xmartlabs.xmartlabs-notification-content-extension": "Xmartlabs Notification Content Distribution",

Reviewer: I don't think the profiles for the extensions are needed for this blog. Also there are a lot of parameters like disabling Bitcode which could also be removed and left as default

---
layout: post

> title: "Make your iOS development workflow faster through Fastlane automate tasks and Bitrise CI & CD"

Reviewer: Maybe "... Fastlane automated tasks..."?

Also maybe the title could be shorter. When searching in Google you won't see the last words of a long title and in this case the key words are at the end

Author: `Agile iOS development workflow through Fastlane & Bitrise` ??

Author: @mats-claassen

Reviewer: That is better. Maybe `Agile iOS development workflow using Fastlane & Bitrise`

I am not so sure about "Agile"

> date: 2020-03-25 10:00:00

Reviewer 2: don't forget to modify this date before merging

author: Martin Barreto
categories: CI, fastlane, bitrise
author_id: mtnBarreto
featured_position: 1

> featured_image: /images/tflite_coreml/featured.png

Reviewer: You must add a new image here

---

The only way to move faster in a dynamic environment is to automate everything repetitive and time consuming.

> There are many task we can automate in a common development workflow, in this post i would like to talk about how our iOS team uses [Fastlane](https://https://fastlane.tools/) and [Bitrise](https://www.bitrise.io/) to automate the app release to testflight, but also how we are able to make sure we are not introducing error in already implemented functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are many tasks we can automate in a common development workflow, in this post I would like to talk about how our iOS team uses [Fastlane](https://https://fastlane.tools/) and [Bitrise](https://www.bitrise.io/) to automate the app release process to TestFlight, but also how we are able to make sure we are not introducing errors in already implemented functionality.
```

> There are many task we can automate in a common development workflow, in this post i would like to talk about how our iOS team uses [Fastlane](https://https://fastlane.tools/) and [Bitrise](https://www.bitrise.io/) to automate the app release to testflight, but also how we are able to make sure we are not introducing error in already implemented functionality.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are many tasks we can automate in a common development workflow, in this post I would like to talk about how our iOS team uses [Fastlane](https://https://fastlane.tools/) and [Bitrise](https://www.bitrise.io/) to automate app releases to TestFlight, but also about how we are able to make sure we are not introducing an error in already implemented functionality.
```

### What's Fastlane

> Basically Fastlane is a open source that simplify and speed up development process by allowing the team to automate development workflows. It has continues integration support with many CI platforms like Bitrise, circleCI, Jenkins, travisCI among others.

Reviewer 3: And open source?? library?

> Basically Fastlane is a open source that simplify and speed up development process by allowing the team to automate development workflows. It has continues integration support with many CI platforms like Bitrise, circleCI, Jenkins, travisCI among others.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Basically fastlane is an open source platform that both simplifies and speeds up the development process by allowing teams to automate development workflows. It has continuous integration support with many CI platforms like Bitrise, circleCI, Jenkins, travisCI, among others.
```

### What's Bitrise

> Bitrise allows us to do continues integration and continues delivery as a services.

Reviewer 3: Bitrise is a Continuous Integration and Delivery (CI/CD) Platform as a Service (PaaS) with a main focus on mobile app development  with a tremendous collection of tools that help you with the development and automation of your software projects.

Author: " tremendous collection of tools "  🍼

> > This blog is not intended to explain these concepts but how we configure and set up these tools to optimize our development workflow. See their respective website and documentation to know more about each tool.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> This blog is not intended to explain these concepts but how we configure and set up these tools to optimize our development workflow. See their respective websites and docs to know more about each tool.
```

> ### So, why automate integrations and releases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### So, why automate integrations and releases?
```

> There are several reasons but the most important are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are several reasons but these are the most important:
```

> There are several reasons but the most important are:

Reviewer 4: In my opinion one of the most important, is that it helps you avoid making common mistakes. Version bump, create a tag and all that common stuff that you can forget

Reviewer 4: Also credentials and secrets (keys, keystores) are very important, you can develop without some them and then the CD can use it to deliver. It's more secure!

> 1. Definition of development workflow. Consistency on frequency or triggers that execute the automate tasks like testing and release.

Reviewer: automated? or automatic?

Author: automated

> 1. Definition of development workflow. Consistency on frequency or triggers that execute the automate tasks like testing and release.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Definition of the development workflow. Consistency on frequency or triggers that execute the automated tasks like testing and release.
```

> 2. Save Time and money. Nobody in a engineering team likes to do repetity tasks. We have more time/money to invest on what's really matters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Save time and money. Nobody in an engineering team likes to do repetitive tasks. We have more time/money to invest on what really matters.
```

> 2. Save Time and money. Nobody in a engineering team likes to do repetity tasks. We have more time/money to invest on what's really matters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Save Time and money. Nobody in an engineering team likes to do repetitive tasks. We have more time/money to invest on what really matters.
```

> ## How to set un Fastlane in a iOS project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How to set up Fastlane in an iOS project.
```

> ## How to set un Fastlane in a iOS project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## How to set up fastlane in an iOS project
```

> > we consider you have already installed Fastlane in your computer. If not see Fastlane documentation and get back to this point.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> We consider you have already installed fastlane in your computer. If not, see its documentation and then come back to this section.
```

Navigate in your terminal to your iOS project's directory and run:

```bash
fastlane init
```

> This will create several fastlane config files, the most important is `Fastfile` file which stores the automation configuration within that you'll see different lanes. Each lane is there to automate a different task, like screenshots, code signing, or pushing new releases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This will create several fastlane config files, with the most important being `Fastfile`, which is a file that stores the automation configuration where you'll see different lanes. Each lane is there to automate a different task, like screenshots, code signing, or pushing new releases.
```

> We can add as many lanes as we need. Each lane automate a development process and can be run through a command `fastlane <lane_name>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We can add as many lanes as we need. Each lane automates a development process and can be run using the command `fastlane <lane_name>`.
```

> So let's create a test lane in order to run nit tests by running `fastlane test`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So let's create a test lane in order to run unit tests by running `fastlane test`.
```

> So let's create a test lane in order to run nit tests by running `fastlane test`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
So, let's create a test lane in order to run nit tests by running `fastlane test`.
```

```ruby
desc "Runs all the tests"

lane :test do
  xctest(
    clean: false,
    code_coverage: true,

>     scheme: "chefsfeed",

Reviewer 5: 😬😬😬

 `   scheme: "xmartlabs",
`

>     workspace: "chefsfeed.xcworkspace",

Reviewer 3: `workspace: "xmartlabs.xcworkspace"`

    destination: "name=iPhone 11,OS=13.3"
  )
end
```

> > xctest is a build-in fastlane action available to everyone that uses Xcode command tools and run Xcode tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> xctest is a build-in fastlane action available to everyone that uses Xcode command line tools and runs Xcode tests.
```

> > xctest is a build-in fastlane action available to everyone that uses Xcode command tools and run Xcode tests.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> xctest is a built-in fastlane action available to everyone that uses Xcode command tools and run Xcode tests.
```

> So now we can run our ios project tests by running `fastlane tests`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
So now we can run our iOS project tests by running `fastlane tests`.
```

> Now we want to automatically trigger this lane whenever any developer create a pull request in our git remote repository. To do so we are going to use Bitrise which allows us to do continues integrations and continue delivery as a service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now we want to automatically trigger this lane whenever any developer creates a pull request in our git remote repository. To do so we are going to use Bitrise which allows us to do continuous integration and continuous delivery as a service.
```

> In short Bitrise allows the developer to create workflows, a sequence of tasks that run one per time until it fails or completes. Bitrise also provides triggers that execute a workflow whenever a git tag, pull request or push is performed in a remote git repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In short, Bitrise allows the developer to create workflows, a sequence of tasks that run one at a time until one fails or all complete. Bitrise also provides triggers that execute a workflow whenever a git tag, pull request or push is performed in a remote git repository.
```

<img width="100%" src="/images/ios-fastlane-ci/triggers.png" />

> We still need to define our `pr` workflow that should run `fastlane tests`. As we said a workflow is a sequence of task that will run one after another. Bitrise provides the computer hardware with basic configuration and setup like Xcode and cocoapods and some other tools. We only need to define the workflow, which means we need to define the sequence of tasks that belongs to the workflow.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We still need to define our `pr` workflow that should run `fastlane tests`. As we said a workflow is a sequence of tasks that will run one after another. Bitrise provides the computer hardware with basic configuration and setup like Xcode and cocoapods and some other tools. We only need to define the workflow, which means we need to define the sequence of tasks that belong to the workflow.
```

> We would said that first step is to clone the repository, Bitrise already provides a task to do so named `Git Clone Repository`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The first step is to clone the repository for which Bitrise already provides a task to do so named `Git Clone Repository`.
```

> We also have to install any needed tool not provided by default in [Bitrise environment stack](https://github.com/bitrise-io/bitrise.io/blob/master/system_reports/osx-xcode-11.3.x.log). It could be a missing functionality or we might need another version for a particular tool.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We also have to install any needed tool not provided by default in [Bitrise environment stack](https://github.com/bitrise-io/bitrise.io/blob/master/system_reports/osx-xcode-11.3.x.log). It could be a missing functionality or we might need another version of a particular tool.
```

> Even though fastlane is part of the Bitrise stack I'm using a newer version so i'm gonna install it. We will also update cocoapods repo. We can do so by adding a new step to the workflow that run a script named 'Do anything with Script step'.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Even though fastlane is part of the Bitrise stack, I'm using a newer version of it so I'm gonna install it. We will also update the cocoapods repo. We can do so by adding a new step to the workflow that runs a script named 'Do anything with Script step'.
```

Below you can see the content of the script.

```bash
#!/usr/bin/env bash
# fail if any commands fails
set -e
# debug log
set -x

# write your script here
gem update cocoapods
pod repo update

set -ex
gem install fastlane --version 2.142.0 --no-document
```

Then we need to run our fastlane lane, Bitrise also provides a Workflow task to accomplish this named `fastlane` where we only need to specify the name of our fastlane lane which is `test`.

Here is the entire workflow already created in Bitrise.

<img width="100%" src="/images/ios-fastlane-ci/workflow.png" />

> At this point `test` lane will be executed whenever a pull request is created/updated. cool right? Bitrise integrates with github/bitbucket and many other git solutions to indicate if everything goes well or not.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At this point `test` lane will be executed whenever a pull request is created/updated. Cool right? Bitrise integrates with github/bitbucket and many other git solutions to indicate if everything goes well or not.
```

> Another automated task we strongly use is the release of new versions. Basically we send a new build to testflight whenever a new tag (named <version_*>) is created in github. As we said Bitrise provides push, pull request and tag triggers, this time we are going to use tag triggers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Another automated task we strongly use is the release of new versions. Basically we send a new build to TestFlight whenever a new tag (named <version_*>) is created in GitHub. As we said Bitrise provides push, pull request and tag triggers, this time we are going to use tag triggers.
```

> Another automated task we strongly use is the release of new versions. Basically we send a new build to testflight whenever a new tag (named <version_*>) is created in github. As we said Bitrise provides push, pull request and tag triggers, this time we are going to use tag triggers.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Another task we strongly suggest is to automate the release of new versions. Basically send a new build to testflight whenever a new tag (named <version_*>) is created in GitHub. As we said Bitrise provides us with push, pull request and tag triggers, to achieve this we are going to use tag trigger.
```

> The most important task to set up the bitrise workflow is running the `release_appstore` lane, all the rest are tasks dedicated to clone the repo, and set up the environment are the same as `pr` workflow.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The most important task to set up the Bitrise workflow is running the `release_appstore` lane, all the rest are tasks dedicated to clone the repo, and set up the environment are the same as `pr` workflow.
```

> The most important task to set up the bitrise workflow is running the `release_appstore` lane, all the rest are tasks dedicated to clone the repo, and set up the environment are the same as `pr` workflow.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The most important step to set up the bitrise workflow is running the `release_appstore` lane, all the rest are tasks dedicated to cloning the repo, and setting up the environment (same as `pr` workflow).
```

> Let's create the bitrise `testflight` workflow first.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's create the Bitrise `testflight` workflow first.
```

<img width="100%" src="/images/ios-fastlane-ci/addNewWorkflow.gif" />

> The most important workflow task is the execution of `release_appstore` lane.

Reviewer 6: You already said this in a previous paragraph
```suggestion
```

> Now let's see how to implement fastlane `release_appstore` lane...

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now let's see how to implement the fastlane `release_appstore` lane...
```

```ruby
lane :release_appstore  do

  build_type = "AppStore"
  build_app_id = ENV["APP_BUNDLE_ID"]
  build_sign_team_id = ENV["APP_SIGN_TEAM_ID"]
  build_sign_profile_name = ENV["APP_APPSTORE_SIGN_PROFILE_NAME"]
  build_sign_certificate_name = ENV["APP_APPSTORE_SIGN_CERTIFICATE_NAME"]

  build_folder = Time.now.strftime("%Y.%m.%d-%H.%M.%S+") + Random.rand(20).to_s
  build_derived_data_path = "./fastlane/builds/#{build_type}/#{build_folder}/derived_data/"
  build_output_path = "./fastlane/builds/#{build_type}/#{build_folder}/artifacts/"

>   build_output_name = "chefsfeed_" + build_type

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  build_output_name = "xmartlabs_" + build_type
```
```suggestion
  build_output_name = "project_" + build_type
```

  # `automatic_code_signing` configures Xcode's Codesigning options.
  automatic_code_signing(
    use_automatic_signing: false,

>     path: "chefsfeed.xcodeproj",

Reviewer 7: `path: "chefsfeed.xcodeproj"` => `path: "xmartlabs.xcodeproj"`

>     path: "chefsfeed.xcodeproj",

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    path: "xmartlabs.xcodeproj",
```
```suggestion
    path: "project.xcodeproj",
```

    team_id: build_sign_team_id,
    profile_name: build_sign_profile_name,
    code_sign_identity: build_sign_certificate_name,

>     targets: ["chefsfeed"]

Reviewer 7: `targets: ["chefsfeed"]` => `targets: ["xmartlabs"]`
Also in `build_ios_app` method call.

>     targets: ["chefsfeed"]

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    targets: ["xmartlabs"]
```
```suggestion
    targets: ["project"]
```

  )

  #`build_ios_app` Easily build and sign your iOS app.
  build_ios_app(
    workspace: "chefsfeed.xcworkspace",
    configuration: "Release",
    scheme: "chefsfeed",
    clean: true,
    output_name: build_output_name,
    output_directory: build_output_path,
    derived_data_path: build_derived_data_path,
    build_path: build_output_path,
    include_bitcode: true,
    include_symbols: true,
    export_options: {
      compileBitcode: false,
      uploadBitcode: false,
      uploadSymbols: true,
      signingStyle: "manual",
      method: "app-store",
      teamID: build_sign_team_id,
      provisioningProfiles: {
        "com.credibleinc.chefsfeed": "ChefsFeed Distribution",
        "com.credibleinc.chefsfeed.chefsfeed-notification-content-extension": "ChefsFeed Notification Content Distribution",
        "com.credibleinc.chefsfeed.chefsfeed-notification-service-extension": "ChefsFeed Notification Service Distribution",
      }
    }
  )

  #deliver uploads screenshots, metadata and binaries to App Store Connect. Use deliver to submit your app for App Store review.
  deliver(skip_screenshots: true, skip_metadata: true, skip_app_version_update: true)

end
```

> Explain each parameter and detail of each fastlane action is out of the scope of this blogpost. I added a short comment inline in the code above to indicate the propose of each action. Please visit each fastlane action documentation reference if needed.

Reviewer 7: Maybe a link to the documentation?

> Explain each parameter and detail of each fastlane action is out of the scope of this blogpost. I added a short comment inline in the code above to indicate the propose of each action. Please visit each fastlane action documentation reference if needed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Explaining each parameter and details of each fastlane action is out of the scope of this blogpost. I added a short comment inline in the code above to indicate the purpose of each action. Please visit each fastlane action documentation reference if needed.
```

> Explain each parameter and detail of each fastlane action is out of the scope of this blogpost. I added a short comment inline in the code above to indicate the propose of each action. Please visit each fastlane action documentation reference if needed.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The explanation of each parameter and detail of each fastlane action is out of the scope of this blogpost. I added a short inline comment in the code above to indicate the purpose of each action. Please visit each fastlane action documentation reference if needed.
```

> Now we a new TestFlight app version will be released each time we create a new tag named `version_<number>`.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Now a new TestFlight app version will be released each time we create a new tag named `version_<number>`.
```

> Now we a new TestFlight app version will be released each time we create a new tag named `version_<number>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now we have a new TestFlight app version which will be released each time we create a new tag named `version_<number>`.
```

> Now we a new TestFlight app version will be released each time we create a new tag named `version_<number>`.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Now a new TestFlight app version will be released each time we create a new tag named `version_<number>`.
```

> Although we can accomplish the same result just using Bitrise tasks, we prefer to use it in combination with Fastlane due to the following reasons:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Although we could've accomplished the same result just by using Bitrise tasks, we prefer to do so it in combination with Fastlane due to the following reasons:
```

1. Anyone in the team can run fastlane lanes locally without the need of having CI/CD as a service.

> 2. We have more freedom to change our CI/CD platform at any time. Actually each customer has its own CI/CD preference. Migrating to another CI/CD platform like github Action, travis should be very straightforward since we just need to run the fastlane lane.

Reviewer 3: github Actions

> 2. We have more freedom to change our CI/CD platform at any time. Actually each customer has its own CI/CD preference. Migrating to another CI/CD platform like github Action, travis should be very straightforward since we just need to run the fastlane lane.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. We have more freedom to change our CI/CD platform at any time. Actually each customer has its own CI/CD preference. Migrating to another CI/CD platform like GitHub Actions or travisCI should be very straightforward since we just need to run the fastlane lane.
```

> 1. Anyone in the team can run fastlane lanes locally without the need of having CI/CD as a service.
> 2. We have more freedom to change our CI/CD platform at any time. Actually each customer has its own CI/CD preference. Migrating to another CI/CD platform like github Action, travis should be very straightforward since we just need to run the fastlane lane.

Reviewer 6: I'd only use a numbered list when talking of an order to be followed (such as a recipe), if not I think bullet points make more sense.

```suggestion
- Anyone in the team can run fastlane lanes locally without the need of having CI/CD as a service.
- We have more freedom to change our CI/CD platform at any time. In the real world, each customer has its own CI/CD preference. Migrating to another CI/CD platform like GitHub Actions or Travis should be very straightforward since we just need to run the fastlane lane.
```

> Well guys, hope you have seen the benefits of having these automated tasks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Well, I hope you have seen the benefits of having these automated tasks.
```

> Well guys, hope you have seen the benefits of having these automated tasks.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Well guys, hope I was able to make you see the benefits of having these tasks automated this way.
```
